---
title: Anatomy of a Machine Learning Team
categories: management
image: 20200502_legoheads.jpeg
---

_Last year, I gave a talk titled **"The Anatomy of Machine Learning Teamwork"** at BigData/AI Toronto and the Vector Institute.  Leading teams is contextual, and this post is specific to managing an applied research team with a focus on natural language processing, particularly within the application of fictional stories.  Our successes included creating a novel and monetizable product offering which delighted users.  Asides for commercializing our research, the team published a paper, accepted at EMNLP 2019.  **This post covers team composition. [Part2][part2] covers how our work is structured.**_

Functional, component organizational structures work well, if the thing you are trying to optimize is collaboration within a particular function.  For example, engineers can be working on interesting, hard technical problems.  Data scientists can be in their corner hypothesizing, and stirring that data until they find a model that outperforms their last.  Meanwhile, your product team is plotting what your next big feature or function is; and trying to figure out how to get everyone aligned around working on it.

The overhead of communication was getting higher as the company grew, and often coordination happened amongst managers.  This means the people doing the work didn’t always understand the complete picture of why doing this thing was moving the company forward.  Across the organization, we weren’t maximizing the benefit of diversity of thought, leading to not understanding the problem as well as we could, and also leading to suboptimal solutions.  Even within engineering itself, it leads to a slew of headaches as client engineers tried to integrate with APIs built by another engineering team which is operating under their independent timeline and on top of incomplete requirements.  Don’t even get me started with the friction of releasing machine learning models into production.

Over time, we transformed ourselves into cross-functional, feature teams.  Each team gets to own a mission, empowered to frame the macro and micro problems that fit within that mandate, and own the solution to how to address the problems.  Imagine being able to control the full (or at least, most of the) lifecycle of building a product within your team!  Everyone in the team is to collaborate on ideation and execution, to be able to take in perspectives outside of their own.  Together, we design, build, and maintain a large scale distributed system that serves the needs of tens-of-millions of people globally.  We hold each other accountable for continuous improvement not only for our systems, but arguably more important, ourselves.

The data scientists spend their time applying research papers to our data moat, coming up with new approaches, as well as tailoring solutions that fit the needs of our business.  They come up with a variety of creative ways to apply our data to solve real problems.  And finally, they are often our strongest advocate for new types of data we need to collect.

The engineers take on the full stack of software engineering - from the moment a reader opens a story on their phone, to the APIs that fetches the text from our cloud provider, optimized behind our content delivery networks and internal caching layer, to ingesting real-time feedback, which gets routed to our message broker, into our data lake, with a mix of real-time and batch jobs that enable the rest of our company to easily work with, interpret and manage our data into insights and actionable decisions.

Our product manager meanwhile, is talking to our users, figuring out their needs, understand how our product add value in their lives, identify gaps where we’re under-serving them.  It is also crucial for us to understand our potential market, and any competitors that might be already in that space.  Internally by talking to our stakeholders, we ensure that the work we are doing feeds back to the vision of where our company wants to be in 5 to 10 years.

Had I stayed on to grow the team further, I would have advocated for a product designer, someone dedicated to visual communication, human-centered experiences, and user research.  Further along, I would have advocated for subject matter experts in our domain - in this case, someone with a background in writing, editing, and linguistics.

A question I've received is "but how do you bridge the cadence between data science and the rest of the engineers?" - we'll cover that in our next post about [**The Anatomy of ML Projects**][part2].  Stay tuned.

[part2]: ../ml-projects
